subject always conjugate the verb and in normal sentence the order is subject + verb
	e.g.
		Ich wohne in Berlin. (I live in Berlin.)
		ch bin müde. (I am tired.)


w-fragen (w-questions):
	w-word + verb + subject
	w-word:
		wie: how (not a complete correspondence)
		welche: which
		was: what
		wo: where
		wer: who
		woher: where from
		wie viel: how much
		wie viele: how may
		wie oft: how often
		wen: whom
		warum: why
		wann: when
		wohin: where to
		wem: asking for the dativ (for whom / to whom)

	e.g.
		woher kommst du?
			(where you came from?)
		wie ist dein Familienname?
			(what is your family name?)

ja/nein-fragen (yes or no):
	verb + subject + ...
	e.g.
		Wohnst du in Müchen?
			(do you live in munich?)
		Kommen sie aus Deutschland?
			(you came from germany?)


modal verb:
	put the modal verb in the original verb's position and original verb is moved to end
		of sentence.
		original verb no longer conjugate and take the -en form
		e.g.
			Erik will seine Freundin heiraten. 
				Erik will mary his grilfriend.
				(will (from wollen) in second position, and heiraten (to marry) moved to the end)

			Was möchtest du essen? 
				What would you like to eat?
				(möchtest before du as the verb in w-fragen, and essen moved to the end)

			Kann ich dir helfen? 
				Can I help you
				(kann at start of sentence as the ja/nein fragen's verb, and helfen moved to the end)

	sometimes the original verb might be removed because the modal verb is self-expressive, or the verb is 
		clearly implied
		(in this case you can just think of them as normal verb)
		e.g.
			Ich muss jetzt nach Hause (gehen)
				I must go to home now

	modal verbs: see words...
		
			
		
	

imperatives:
	give advice, instruction, command, request

	will only be used when the subjekt is du / ihr / Sie:
		du: du <stem>-st changes to <stem>, note that for special case some -st forms
			has -est and we keep the e
			e.g.
				du kommst -> Komm!
				du arbeitest -> arbeite!
				du machst auf -> mach auf!

		ihr: ihr + <verb in -t form>, this just deletes ihr	
			e.g.
				ihr fahrt -> Fahrt!
	
		Sie: Sie + <verb in -en form>, this just switch the order of the verb and Sie	
			Sie lernen -> Lernen Sie!

	some special verbs:
		harben, sein and werden

		harben:
			du hast -> hab
				e.g. Hab Geduld!
					Be patient!
		werden:
			du wirst -> Werde
				e.g. Werde gesund!
					Get healthy!

		sein:
			du bist -> Sei
			Sie sind -> Seien Sie
				e.g.
					Sei froh!
					Seien Sie froh!
						Be happy!



nebensatz (subordinate clause)
	<conjunction> + sentence
		verb in the subordinate clause pushed to end of sentence (separable verbs
			combined back)
		also by pushing verb to the end, it refers to the main verb.
			if it is the perfect form, push habe/sein to the end after the verb
			if it is modal verb, similarly push the modal verb after the verb
	also always put comma before conjunction

	conjunctions:
		dass:
			basically I think it transforms the clause into a noun
				and the usage is pretty much like "that" in English
				when the sentence is complete (no missing clauses
				that need the conjunction to fill the position)
				e.g.
					Ich denke, dass Deutch einfach ist. 
						I think German is easy....... (no.....)
						(the subordinate clause act as a noun)
					
					Es ist wichtig, dass du dich gut ernährst
						It is important that you eat well
						(it is pretty much like the "it is ... that..."
						not sure if it is appositive)

					Es ist schön, dass du die Prüfung bestanden hast
						it is nice that you have passed the exam	
						(hast pushed to the end)
					Ich bin mir sicker, dass du besser schreiben kannst
						I am sure you can write better
						(kannst pushed to the end)

		causual subclauses (weil or da)
			represent reasons
			e.g.
				Ich bin spät, weil/da ich denn Zug verpasst habe.
					I am late because I have missed the train

			weil/da are mostly the same except da is used more in spoken language
			weil and da can also be put before the main clause, and the main clause
				will need to start with verb

			e.g.
				Da/weil ich krank bin, kann ich nicht arbeiten.
					Because I am ill, I cannot work

		conditional subclauses (wenn, falls, sofern):
			represent actions only taking place under conditions
			wenn:
				when / if
				e.g.
					Ich komme nach Hause, wenn ich Zeit habe.
						I come home when I have time.
								

			falls:
				in the case when
				(a bit less sure then wenn that the condition will happen)
				e.g.
					Falls ich morgen komme, gehen wir einkaufen.
						In the case I come tmr, we go shopping

		concessive clauses (obwohl):
			express unexpected consequences of an action
			obwohl:
				even though
				e.g.
					Ich gehe arbeiten, obwohl ich Rückenschmerzen habe.
						I go to work even though I have a backache
			
		indirect questions (indirekte Fragesätze)
			subordinate clause to put questions inside the main sentence
			often conjuncated with ob (ja-nein fragen, whether) or 
			corresponding w-question words
			e.g.
				Ich weiß nicht, ob sie mich liebt
					I do not know whether she loves me
				Er fragt, wann wir in Urlaub fahren.
					He asks when we go on vacation
				Können Sie mir sagen, welche Sprachen Sie sprechen?
					can you time which languages do you speak?
				Weißt du, wann der Unterricht zu Ende kommt? 
					do you konw when the lesson ends?
		temporal subordinate (Temporale Nebensätze):
			während: while
			bevor: before / until
			e.g.
				Während wir essen, spielt der Kellner Music.
					while we eat the waiter plays music
				Du darfst keinen Urlaub nehmen, bevor deine Probezeit nicht abgelaufen ist
					you cannot take vacations until your probabation is expired
					(btw the meaning does not make sense because there is a nicht
					after bevor, but look at it here 
					https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1524/9783050062365.214/html?lang=en,
					it is generally considered that the nicht is just dropped...
					it seems to happen only for bevor in german...)
				Mach etwas, bevor es zu spät ist.
					do something before it is too late.

		relative sentences (Relativsätze):
			provide additional information for a person or thing
			they conjunct with a relative pronoun
			e.g.
				Das ist meine Schwester, die sehr intelligent ist.
					This is my sister who is very intelligent
	
			the relative pronouns change according to its case in the subordinate clause
				Nominativ
					masculine der, feminine die, neutral das, plural die
					(basically same as definite article for Nominativ)
					e.g.
						Er Schmidt, der unser Mathelehrer ist, ist leider krank.
							Mr. Schmidt, who is our Math teacher, is unfortunately ill
						Maria hat eine Tasche, die teuer ist.
							Maria has a bag that is expensive
						Ich lese ein Buch, das sehr bekannt ist.
							I read a book that is very famous
						Hier sind viele Kinder, die auf der Straße spielen
							here are a lot of kids, who play on the street
				Akkusativ:
					masculine den, femine die, neutral das, plural die
					(basically same as definite article for Akkusativ)
					e.g.
						Der Junge, den ich nicht kenne, sitzt neben mir.
							The boy who I do not know know is sitting next to me
						Wo ist die Hose, die ich gestern gekauft habe?
							Where are the pants that I bought yesterday
						Das Kind, das ich nett finde, heißt Tobias
							The kid that I find nice is called Tobias
						Wie findest du die Fotos, die wir letztes Jahr gemacht haben?
							What do you think of the photos we took last year?
					note it also applies to akkusativ prepositions, but you have to move the 
						prepositions to the front as in English (even though sometimes
						in English we do not really follow that grammar...)
					e.g.
						Ich finde den Mann komisch, für den du arbeitest.
							I find the man, for whom you work, weird.
							(für den moved to the front)
						Das ist Maria, ohne die ich nicht leben kann.
							This is Maria, without whom I cannot live (lol...)
						...
				Dativ:	
					masculine dem, feminine der, neutral dem, pluarl denen
					(except plural alls ame as definite article for dativ
					for plural definite article is den but we add -en to it
					just as how we usually add -n to the nouns)
					e.g.
						Wo ist der Mann, dem du Geld gegeben hast?
							where is the man you gave the money?
						Unsere nachbarin, der ich Tee koche, ist krank.
							Our neighbor, for whom I will make team, is ill
						Das Kind, dem ich eine Schokolade bringe, ist süß.
							The kid that I bring a chocolate for is sweet.
						Die Kinder, denen ich Süßigkeiten schenke, sind nett.
							The children that I am giving the sweets to are nice
					again for dativ prepositions similar rule as in akkusativ prepositions
					e.g
						Das Haus, in dem ich wohne, ist groß
							The house in which I live is big
						Unsere Freunde, mit denen wir Bier trinken, besuchen uns.
							Our friends, with whom we drink beer, are visiting us
						...
				Genitiv:
					masculine dessen, feminine deren, neutral dessen, plural deren
					(remember for genitiv noramlly for definite article is 
					masculine des, feimine der, neutral des, plural der, and here we
					just add -en to it)
					a small reminder is that the gender to use depends on the noun in main clause 
						(the possessing noun), instead of the noun afterwards (the possessed noun)
					e.g.
						Sie suchen einen Mann, dessen Auto hier steht.
							They are looking for a man whose car is here
						Er mag eine Schauspeilerin, deren Augen er schön findet.
							He likes an actress whose eyes he finds beautiful
						Kennst du das Mädchen, dessen Mutter gestern gestorben ist?
							Do you know this little girl whose mother has died yesterday?
						Wo sind die Kinder, deren Schuhe hier liegen?
							Where are the kids whose shoes lie here?
					Again if you have prepositions, move the prepositions to the front as other cases
					e.g.
						Wo ist dein Bruder, mit dessen Frau ich heute sprechen mörchte.
							Where is your brother, with whose wife I want to speak today
						Hier sind zwei Schüler, mit deren Eltern ich reden will.
							Here are two students with whose parents I want to talk to.
			
			Relativsätze can also be used with wer and was:
				was:
					it is used only for non-living things
					can be used with demonstrative and indefinite pronouns
						(
							demonstrative pronoun: pointing things out
								e.g. das (that), dasselbe (the same), ...
							indefinite pronoun: pronouns that does not really specifically refer to anything
								e.g. 
									alles (everything)
									nichts (nothing)
									manches (many)	
									etwas (something)
									...
						)
						
						e.g.
							Nimm dir das, was dir gefällt.
								Take waht you like
							Das ist etwas, was keiner versteht
								That is something that nobody understands
							Hier gibt es nichts, was mir gefällt
								There is nothing here that I likes
						when used with das, "das" can be ommitted (like noun clauses in English):
						e.g.		
							(Das,) Was du mir erzählst, glaube ich nicht.
								I do not believe what you tell me
							
					it can also be used with superlativ forms of adjectives that got turned into nouns
						e.g.
							Das ist das Schönste, was ich gesehen habe.
								That is the nicest thing that I have seen.
							Das Teuerste, was ich gekauft habe, war mein Handy
								The most expensive thing that I have bought was my phone
					it is also used when you refer to the entire sentence:
						e.g.
							Manche kommen spät zur Arbeit, was der Chef sehr ärgert
								Some come late at work, which annoys the boss very much
							Er hat noch einmal gelogen, was ich nicht schön finde
								He has again lied, which I do not find good
					note that was stays the same no matter what case it is in suborniate clause, but
						in Dativ you might see "dem" being used
						e.g.
							Das ist das Schlimste, was ich gesehen habe
								That is the worst I have ever seen (Akkusativ)
							Er gibt hier vieles, dem / was ich zustimmen kann.
								There is much here that I can agree with (Dativ)
				wer:
					it can be used with non-specific personal pronouns
						it will omit the noun before it just as a noun clause in English
						e.g.
							Derjenige, der eine Schokolade will, sollte melden
								==> Wer eine Schokolade will, sollte melden
								The one who wants a chocolate should report
							Alle, die mitfahren wollen, müssen 5 Euro zahlen.
								==> Wer mitfahren will, muss 5 Euro zahlen.
								The one who wants to ride must pay 5 Euros
					wer changes its form based on the case of it in subordinate clause:
						Nominativ: wer
						Akkusativ: wen
						Dativ: wem
						e.g.
							Wen ich zuerst sehe, frage ich.
								The person I see first, I will ask (Akkusativ)
							Wem das Essen nicht schmeckt, muss nicht zahlen.
								People who do not like the food should not pay (Dativ)
			
							